# Key Concepts

This section of the WSO2 Identity Server documentation include
definitions of identity-related terms and concepts you may come across
as you use the product. This serves to provide an introduction into
concepts in the identity and access management domain and also enhance
understanding of these concepts.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

\[ [Single Sign-On and Identity
Federation](#KeyConcepts-SingleSign-OnandIdentityFederation) \] \[
[Identity Provisioning and its
Standards](#KeyConcepts-IdentityProvisioninganditsStandards) \] \[
[Access Control and Entitlement
Management](#KeyConcepts-AccessControlandEntitlementManagement) \] \[
[Identity Anti-patterns and the Identity
Bus](#KeyConcepts-IdentityAnti-patternsandtheIdentityBus) \]

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Single Sign-On and Identity Federation

The Single Sign-On (SSO) and identity federation section introduces
these concepts, provide an explanation of how these work with real world
applications, and also list out the various specifications supported by
the Identity Server as a solution. Click the button below to view this
content.

configure SSO and Identity Federation

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Identity Provisioning and its Standards

The identity provisioning section introduces the concept along with
inbound and outbound provisioning. This section provides information on
SCIM and SPML, which are protocols supported by the Identity Server. It
also delves into the history of provisioning standards and how these
progressed over time. Click the button below to view this content.

[configure Identity Provisioning and its
Standards](/display/IS570/Identity+Provisioning+and+its+Standards){.contentf-button
.aui-button}

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Access Control and Entitlement Management

The access control and entitlement management section introduces the
concept of access control, the various types of access control and dives
deep into XACML. This section provides detailed information on XACML
including the concept, terminology, and architecture. Click the button
below to view this content.

[configure Access Control and Entitlement
Management](/display/IS570/Access+Control+and+Entitlement+Management){.contentf-button
.aui-button}

  

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Identity Anti-patterns and the Identity Bus

This section introduces the business problem of spaghetti identity and
federation silos. It then expands on how the identity bus that runs
within the WSO2 Identity Server solves this problem. Click the button
below to view this content. 

[configure Identity Anti-patterns and the Identity
Bus](/display/IS570/Identity+Anti-patterns+and+the+Identity+Bus){.contentf-button
.aui-button}

  
